canu_assembly.md, before:

# Canu
## [Download](https://github.com/marbl/canu/releases) and install
Download the the binary version for linux `canu-1.5.Linux-amd64.tar.xz`.

Then:
```
xz -dc canu-1.5.*.tar.xz |tar -xf -
```
Executable programs in `/work/ben/canu-1.5/Linux-amd64/bin`.

## Run
Using the fasta format obtained from `dextract`
```
xport PATH=/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk.x86_64/bin:$PATH
/work/ben/canu-1.5/Linux-amd64/bin/canu -p mellotropicalis_pacbio -d /work/ben/Mellotropicalis_corrected_data/canu_assembly genomeSize=3.1g -pacbio-raw /scratch/ben/mellotropicalis_pacbio_temp/*.fasta.gz
```
Try with different parameters on wobbie (`wobbie101`)
```
/work/ben/canu-1.5/Linux-amd64/bin/canu -p mellotropicalis_pacbio -d /work/ben/Mellotropicalis_corrected_data/canu_assembly genomeSize=3.1g -pacbio-raw /scratch/ben/mellotropicalis_pacbio_temp/*.fasta.gz merylMemory=20 merylThreads=8 >canu_log_May5.txt
```
Not enough memory on `wob101`.

## Notes
- *A well-behaved large genome, such as human or other mammals, can be assembled in 10,000 to 25,000 CPU hours, depending on coverage. A grid environment is strongly recommended, with at least 16GB available on each compute node, and one node with at least 64GB memory. You should plan on having 3TB free disk space, much more for highly repetitive genomes.* Don't think it is really possible... See [FAQ](http://canu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/faq.html#faq)

# Falcon

## Some information
From Falcon [manual](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/FALCON/wiki/Manual)

*Each of the steps is accomplished with different command line tools implementing different sets of algorithms to accomplish the work. Also, the computational requirements are quite different for each step. The manual assumes the user has a reasonable amount of computational resources. For example, to assemble a 100M size genome with a reasonable amount of time, one might need at least 32 core cpus and 128Gb RAM. The code is written with the assumption of a cluster computating environment. One needs a job queue for long last scripting job and cpu-rich computational job queues*

## Installation
- Tried to install Falcon assembler 

Trying loading this modules 1st (need recent Python version)
```
module load intel/12.1.3
module load python/intel/2.7.8
```
Then (need to unload `python/intel/2.7.8` because of conflicts): 
```
module unload python/intel/2.7.8
module unload intel mkl openmpi
module load gcc/4.9.2 
module load python/gcc/2.7.8 

git clone git://github.com/PacificBiosciences/FALCON-integrate.git
cd FALCON-integrate
git checkout master
git submodule update --init
make init
source env.sh
make config-edit-user
make -j all
make test
```
Conclusion: need to see if it is the best solution and then ask Sharcnet for help to install the software.
Also tried with
```
module load intel/12.1.3
module load python/intel/3.4.2
make -j all
```
And with the `make config-standard` (instead of `make config-edit-user`). Will need to install another version of `Python` or ask Sharcnet. Tried also after installing locally `Python-2.7.9` and adding it to the `PATH`, still not working.
```
tar xvfz Python-2.7.9.tgz
cd Python-2.7.9
export PYTHON_TOP_DIR=/work/ben/Mellotropicalis_corrected_data/falcon/Python-2.7.9
./configure --prefix=$PYTHON_TOP_DIR
make
make install
export PATH=$PYTHON_TOP_DIR/bin:$PATH
echo $PATH
```

Commit message:

info about Falcon correction step

canu_assembly.md, after:

# Canu
## [Download](https://github.com/marbl/canu/releases) and install
Download the the binary version for linux `canu-1.5.Linux-amd64.tar.xz`.

Then:
```
xz -dc canu-1.5.*.tar.xz |tar -xf -
```
Executable programs in `/work/ben/canu-1.5/Linux-amd64/bin`.

## Run
Using the fasta format obtained from `dextract`
```
xport PATH=/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk.x86_64/bin:$PATH
/work/ben/canu-1.5/Linux-amd64/bin/canu -p mellotropicalis_pacbio -d /work/ben/Mellotropicalis_corrected_data/canu_assembly genomeSize=3.1g -pacbio-raw /scratch/ben/mellotropicalis_pacbio_temp/*.fasta.gz
```
Try with different parameters on wobbie (`wobbie101`)
```
/work/ben/canu-1.5/Linux-amd64/bin/canu -p mellotropicalis_pacbio -d /work/ben/Mellotropicalis_corrected_data/canu_assembly genomeSize=3.1g -pacbio-raw /scratch/ben/mellotropicalis_pacbio_temp/*.fasta.gz merylMemory=20 merylThreads=8 >canu_log_May5.txt
```
Not enough memory on `wob101`.

## Notes
- *A well-behaved large genome, such as human or other mammals, can be assembled in 10,000 to 25,000 CPU hours, depending on coverage. A grid environment is strongly recommended, with at least 16GB available on each compute node, and one node with at least 64GB memory. You should plan on having 3TB free disk space, much more for highly repetitive genomes.* Don't think it is really possible... See [FAQ](http://canu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/faq.html#faq)

# Falcon

## Some information
The 1st step of Falcon is correcting the reads (can be turned of with `input_type = preads` if we used already corrected reads). See the ["Raw sub reads overlapping for error correction" paragraph of the manual](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/FALCON/wiki/Manual#raw-sub-reads-overlapping-for-error-correction) for more details.

From Falcon [manual](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/FALCON/wiki/Manual)

*Each of the steps is accomplished with different command line tools implementing different sets of algorithms to accomplish the work. Also, the computational requirements are quite different for each step. The manual assumes the user has a reasonable amount of computational resources. For example, to assemble a 100M size genome with a reasonable amount of time, one might need at least 32 core cpus and 128Gb RAM. The code is written with the assumption of a cluster computating environment. One needs a job queue for long last scripting job and cpu-rich computational job queues*

## Installation
- Tried to install Falcon assembler 

Trying loading this modules 1st (need recent Python version)
```
module load intel/12.1.3
module load python/intel/2.7.8
```
Then (need to unload `python/intel/2.7.8` because of conflicts): 
```
module unload python/intel/2.7.8
module unload intel mkl openmpi
module load gcc/4.9.2 
module load python/gcc/2.7.8 

git clone git://github.com/PacificBiosciences/FALCON-integrate.git
cd FALCON-integrate
git checkout master
git submodule update --init
make init
source env.sh
make config-edit-user
make -j all
make test
```
Conclusion: need to see if it is the best solution and then ask Sharcnet for help to install the software.
Also tried with
```
module load intel/12.1.3
module load python/intel/3.4.2
make -j all
```
And with the `make config-standard` (instead of `make config-edit-user`). Will need to install another version of `Python` or ask Sharcnet. Tried also after installing locally `Python-2.7.9` and adding it to the `PATH`, still not working.
```
tar xvfz Python-2.7.9.tgz
cd Python-2.7.9
export PYTHON_TOP_DIR=/work/ben/Mellotropicalis_corrected_data/falcon/Python-2.7.9
./configure --prefix=$PYTHON_TOP_DIR
make
make install
export PATH=$PYTHON_TOP_DIR/bin:$PATH
echo $PATH
```
